# khalid_portfolio
Dantala's Data
Radio refractivity plays an important role in developing and designing radio systems for communication. Refractivity affects electromagnetic waves and the determination of radio refractivity helps in attaining a good level of performance of radio links. Hence, measuring radio refractivity plays a significant role in the success of projects that involves electromagnetic propagation. Examples of such projects are radio and televison communication systems, microwave communication and wireless communication systems.
Radio refractivity could be computed via data from the troposphere while atmospheric refractive index (n) could be calculated using a standard formula (n  1  N  10–6). However, radio refractivity is affected by many factors caused by the variations of meteorological parameters such as humidity, temperature and atmospheric pressure. The measurement of these parameters could be expensive and tedious, if traditional methods (such as the use radiosonde) is utilized. This could lead to high errors in the prediction of radio refractivity. This study aims to utilize selected machine learning techniques like regression, artificial neural network; frameworks such as Sci-kit learn, and programming languages such as R, Python and Matlab to predict radio refractivity.
The study area covered different areas in Abuja, Nigeria. The research locations lie between Lat 9.0765° N and Long. 7.3986° E. The study area has three seasons: warm, rainy and harmattan seasons. The meteorological data were collected from the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet), Abuja, Nigeria using a radiosonde. The data collected were pressure, temperature and relative humidity. The study used different programming languages such as R, MATLAB, and Python; framework such as Sci-kit learn; and algorithms such as regression and artificial neural network to predict radio refractivity. This study then selected the algorithm with the best results for predicting radio refractivity.
This study observed that all algorithms utilized for predicting radio refractivity (regression, artificial neural network) performed well. However, it was observed that higher relative errors (relative errors were higher than 0.5%) were observed between the predicted and actual values when using Python programming language and Scikit-learn framework when compared with Regression model using R programming language. It was also observed that artificial neural network (ANN) using MATLAB performed best (predicted and actual values of radio refractivity were closely related and relative errors were lower than 0.5%) compared to other programming languages (R and Python) and algorithms. Hence, this study concluded that using an artificial neural network along with MATLAB would be the best algorithm and programming language for predicting radio refractivity successfully.
